>> Kevin Powell: And speaking of writing
CSS, we're gonna be diving into it now,
but before we write one line of CSS,
one thing that you should decide
at the beginning of a project is how
you're going to approach writing it.
Because a lot of the time I'm teaching
people at the very beginning of what
they're learning, as soon as we get this
on the page, the first thing is, okay,
let's style it.
Because first of all,
it's boring looking at a page of the white
background black text that
has no styling on it,
but also it feels like the right
time to start doing it.
So the instinct at this point for a lot
of people is to start writing CSS for
what they have here and
then they'll continue down the page.
Or maybe they'll even just
write all the HTML and
then they just dive in at the top of
the page and work their way down.
I'm gonna say instead of doing that,
you wanna have a plan in place
from the very beginning.
Have an idea of how you wanna
be authoring your CSS and
having an idea of what you're going to
be doing to make it as easy as possible.
And just so you can maintain it in
the long run, instead of just being,
this has a brown background.
This is a green, brown, green,
you're just redeclaring things over and
over again, we wanna try to avoid
doing that as much as possible.
Because this is a solo project,
you're doing it on your own,
you're not working in a team.
You get to decide how you wanna be doing
this and I'm gonna be hopefully throwing
some ideas and things along the way to
you so you can make these decisions.
This obviously comes the big caveat
that if you're working in a team,
the right approach is whatever
your team has decided.
So even if you disagree with it,
you don't have a choice,
everybody needs to be consistent
with what they're doing.
The big topic that always comes
up is utility first versus,
quote, unquote, traditional methods.
With the rise of Tailwind, obviously,
utility classes have become
very popular these days.
We have Tailwind and
lots of other utility libraries that have
come up that do things a little
bit differently than they do.
Tailwind can have its place
depending on how you're working, but
in a vanilla project
like we're doing today.
It doesn't really make sense just
cuz we're not gonna be working with
component-based Javascript framework where
utility classes can actually be a little
bit more useful.
When you have to repeat yourself over and
over and over again for
everything you're doing.
Instead of having a component where
those classes only have to live once.
Going in with a bit more of a traditional
method does make sense, and
we'll talk more about that idea between
the two of them as we go through things.
But just not going all in with that,
I think for this type of project,
it does make sense.
The other thing though on that
is don't be dogmatic about
how you're writing your CSS.
I mentioned in one of the early lessons
that my own way of writing CSS has changed
over the years, and it's gonna
continue changing as time goes on.
Don't be the type of person that
says this is the right way to do it.
It might be the right way for you, but
that doesn't mean it's the right way for
everybody.
And different projects are gonna
have different requirements and
different approaches that you
might need to take to them.
So in one project one way might be better,
in another project there might be
an alternative that you can use
that would benefit that project.
You wanna look at the whole
thing before you decide,
I'm a very big fan of
finding a balance in general,
I find that helps working in no matter
what size project you're working on.
I used to be the biggest proponent of BEM,
it's what I used in every project I I did.
And then slowly I started
using more utility classes and
sneaking them into BEM against
the rules of using it.
And then I actually had a push going
really far into utility classes, and
then I found a bit of a middle ground,
which is a bit of what I'll
be showing you all today.
And just finding sort of the right
balance between using them or
what I feel is the right balance.
But that can change depending, again,
on the project, on the person, and
everything else along the way.
So in deciding all of
this from the beginning,
the first thing I would suggest
is looking at the project.
And I said, we're gonna create a plan of
attack and do all of that, and deciding on
how you wanna approach it, means looking
at the design and not looking at that one.
I'm modifying the design not looking at
that one thing that we were just looking
at before.
Cuz when you could just come in and
you hyper focus on one area like that,
it's really easy to say,
this is how I'm going to code this.
And you could take 10,000 different ways
of coding this or spreading the CSS for
this, and they'd all be perfectly
fine if this was your entire project.
But then when you start zooming out,
you start seeing a few things where you
might be able to get a bigger picture.
We have certain widths of our site,
so this area here's kind of narrow,
where the text is, we have this area's
a bit wider, this area's really wide.
We have the different background colors
that are going on, medium brown, the dark
green, the dark brown, and the medium
brown, they sort of repeat each other.
We have these cards that are coming in,
and
the cards are a little bit of a tricky
one, cause I'm calling it a card.
We have a background color,
we have a border radius on there,
and we have orange text as the title and
the paragraph text in there.
If I come look over here, we have a very
similar thing but the title is different.
But we still have the same background
color, the same padding on there, and
the same border radius.
And then over here as well,
we have the same background color,
the same border radius and
other things like that.
So looking beyond that first page, and
looking beyond the top of it, you can
start looking for things where you go,
okay, maybe I see these similarities here.
I wanna start thinking about that and
finding ways that,
how can I address that and
how can I build those up.
You don't need to have a plan right away,
but just being aware of those things.
If I look at my images, all of
the images have border radiuses on them.
These ones are a bit smaller,
these images that are larger
have larger border radiuses.
How would you tackle that,
what would you do to approach that?
The text color in some places or
the font size and the text color changes.
We have small text,
we have bigger paragraph text,
even bigger paragraph text.
How would you approach doing that,
how would you change the color from sort
of a faded out white a little bit,
to the bright white.
And how are you gonna decide on all of
these things, and looking at the entire
thing, and then poking and
looking at the mobile design too.
To see if there's any big differences
that happen there with the font sizes and
the other things.
You really need to look at all of this
before you can decide on what you think is
going to work best for the project.
Again, you don't need to have this is
exactly how I'm going to tackle each
one of these problems, but
by being aware that these are all
things you need to figure out.
It's gonna at least get you in the right
frame of mind as you're going through
things to be looking at
everything in the bigger picture.
And when you are looking after when you
get down to say this section right here,
you might look at this section and
then go, I'm putting these cards together.
But I remember there's three
different types of cards, so
I'm not just building this card.
I'm building something that needs to
be able to be reused in different ways,
with different title sizes and
other things like that.
And then you have to start thinking about,
okay, how am I gonna do that title and
those types of things?
So always look big picture,
analyze the design as much as possible
before you start writing any CSS at all.